GH-317: [Java] add recipe for vector schema root appender cases (#318)
apache/arrow-cookbook: java/source/data.rst

.. contents::

Append VectorSchemaRoots
========================

In some cases, VectorSchemaRoot needs to be modeled as a container. To accomplish
this, you can use ``VectorSchemaRootAppender.append``. The following code gets
the three vectors separately, and then appends the three vectors together:

.. testcode::

    import org.apache.arrow.memory.BufferAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.RootAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.IntVector;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.VectorSchemaRoot;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.util.VectorSchemaRootAppender;

    try (BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator()) {
        VectorSchemaRoot result = null;
        IntVector appenderOne = new IntVector("column", allocator);
        IntVector appenderTwo = new IntVector("column", allocator);
        appenderOne.allocateNew(2);
        appenderOne.set(0, 100);
        appenderOne.set(1, 20);
        appenderOne.setValueCount(2);
        appenderTwo.allocateNew(2);
        appenderTwo.set(0, 34);
        appenderTwo.set(1, 75);
        appenderTwo.setValueCount(2);
        try (

>             final VectorSchemaRoot rootOne = new VectorSchemaRoot(

Reviewer: you can just use a schema and `VectorSchemaRoot.create` to get rid of the nesting here by initializing everything in the top-level try-with-resources

                    Collections.singletonList(appenderOne));
            final VectorSchemaRoot rootTwo = new VectorSchemaRoot(
                    Collections.singletonList(appenderTwo))
        ) {

>             if (result == null) {

Reviewer: result is always null...

Author: Changed

                result = VectorSchemaRoot.create(rootOne.getSchema(), allocator);
                result.allocateNew();
            }
            VectorSchemaRootAppender.append(result, rootOne, rootTwo);
            System.out.print(result.contentToTSVString());
        }

>         result.close();

Reviewer: try-with-resources

Author: Added

.. contents::

> Append VectorSchemaRoots
> ========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concatenating VectorSchemaRoots
===============================
```

In some cases, VectorSchemaRoot needs to be modeled as a container. To accomplish

> this, you can use ``VectorSchemaRootAppender.append``. The following code gets
> the three vectors separately, and then appends the three vectors together:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this, you can use ``VectorSchemaRootAppender.append``. The following code 
creates two roots, then concatenates them together:
```

.. contents::

Append VectorSchemaRoots
========================

In some cases, VectorSchemaRoot needs to be modeled as a container. To accomplish
this, you can use ``VectorSchemaRootAppender.append``. The following code reads a
Parquet file with three row groups, gets the three vectors separately, and then

> appends the three vectors together:

Reviewer: Text needs updating

> There will be another cases of integration w

Reviewer: Cut off?

Author: Deleted

    import org.apache.arrow.memory.BufferAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.RootAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.IntVector;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.VectorSchemaRoot;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.util.VectorSchemaRootAppender;

    try (
        BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator()
    ) {
        VectorSchemaRoot result = null;
        try (
            IntVector appenderOne = new IntVector("column",
                    allocator);
            IntVector appenderTwo = new IntVector("column",
                    allocator)
        ) {
            appenderOne.allocateNew(2);
            appenderOne.set(0, 100);
            appenderOne.set(1, 20);
            appenderOne.setValueCount(2);
            appenderTwo.allocateNew(2);
            appenderTwo.set(0, 34);
            appenderTwo.set(1, 75);
            appenderTwo.setValueCount(2);
            try (
                final VectorSchemaRoot rootOne = new VectorSchemaRoot(
                        Collections.singletonList(appenderOne));
                final VectorSchemaRoot rootTwo = new VectorSchemaRoot(
                        Collections.singletonList(appenderTwo))

>             ) {

Reviewer: Why so much nesting? This can be written more clearly.

Author: Updated

.. contents::

Append VectorSchemaRoots
========================

In some cases, VectorSchemaRoot needs to be modeled as a container. To accomplish
this, you can use ``VectorSchemaRootAppender.append``. The following code reads a
Parquet file with three row groups, gets the three vectors separately, and then
appends the three vectors together:

.. testcode::

    import java.io.IOException;

    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.file.FileFormat;
    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.file.FileSystemDatasetFactory;
    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.jni.NativeMemoryPool;
    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.scanner.ScanOptions;
    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.scanner.Scanner;
    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.source.Dataset;
    import org.apache.arrow.dataset.source.DatasetFactory;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.BufferAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.RootAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.VectorSchemaRoot;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.ipc.ArrowReader;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.util.VectorSchemaRootAppender;

>     VectorSchemaRoot appendVectorSchemaRootAsOne(BufferAllocator allocator) {

Reviewer: I think it would be clearer if we just constructed the vectors in-memory instead of having to pull in dataset for this

Author: Changed
